#summary Future development roadmap
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

= Roadmap =

==Release 2.3==
 * Implement XML Configuration
 * Pass 100% JSR-303 TCK tests

==Release 2.2==
 * Increase provable JSR-303 compatibility from the baseline established by the TCK against milestone 2.1 to 100% of non XML tests.

==Release 2.1==
 * Establish a baseline of JSR-303 compatibility with the [http://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/stable/beanvalidation/tck/reference/html_single/ TCK]
 * Fix defects from Release 2.0

==Release 2.0==
 * All features of 1.0 supported.
   * Class Level Validation
   * Message Interpolation
   * Group Sequence
   * Validation Implementation
 * The validateValue method fully implemented.
 * Generation of server side code through javassist or some other mechanism to reduce reliance on introspection and reflection and to increase similarity to client side process.
 * Code templates for client side generation to make modification easier
 * Built-in message interpolation and i8n support for messages

==Release 1.0 (deprecated)==
 * Annotation based field/method validation.
 * Annotations from superclasses and implemented interfaces.
 * Group based selection of methods. 
 * Validation on whole objects or single properties. (Client side and Server side)
 * Facilitates writing custom validators.
 * Class level validation.
 * Object graph validation through the @Valid annotation.
 * Groups fully working with "default" grouping and such.
 * @GroupSequence annotation.
 * InvalidConstraint is as JSR-303 compliant as it is likely to get